which are crucial to our well being and
one of them is the capacity to openly
debate ideas and to expose ourselves to
ideas across the gamut and I'm not just
talking about political ideas I'm
talking about scientific ideas yes so
how are we going to win the battle
against anti-vaxxers like how are we
going to persuade people who believe
that vaccines kill people for which
there's no scientific evidence that
they're wrong
we could imprison them like that's force
we could vote which is sort of what
we're doing we're saying okay well
you're a minority group who believes
these things so we're not going to allow
you to control policy or we could try to
win the battle of ideas and persuade
them ultimately that's the only path
that's - in my view that gets us to
where we want to be yeah and just an
honest assessment of the actual data
like what we really know and
understanding how these scientists come
to these conclusions but the the problem
is these echo chambers where people get
involved online that magnify all of
these beliefs and you get radicalized I
mean I've seen true people get involved
in these Facebook groups these
anti-vaxxer Facebook groups or you know
all sorts of different things I mean
that's how these Flat Earth people get
going yes they start listening only to
people that are involved in this circle
they don't have a greater understanding
of the science involved and you just see
I just online there's a a cruise to the
flat or cruise for a flat earth right
now if you saw it - the ice wall yeah
the ice wall that's a new wrinkle cuz
the old flat earthers used to think that
the water was shown falling off the disk
of the earth you know like the edge of
the earth it was just a disk mm-hmm now
the new theory that there's an ice wall
actually it is it's kind of not
falsifiable because to say you you could
get on a cruise and sail to the edge of
the earth and you would find a wall of
ice there so you Antarctica so you think
ha it's flat in other words they they
have redefined their theory - to make it
so that you can't disprove it mmm right
you don't get to an edge there's no edge
there's an ice wall as what they're
saying no and are you aware of hashtag
spaces fake no I'm not I have to say I'm
not expose myself that that's
space there's a bunch of people that
believe that space is fake okay it's not
real but there's no real space and that
there's like lights up there oh and that
this is some sort of a plan by Satan
it's a lot of it's very biblical it's
really interesting a lot of the Flat
Earth stuff is very biblical
that's it has to do with the firmament
oh and they use descriptions and
depictions from the Bible oh yeah it's
super bizarre and what's really bizarre
is when you listen to the YouTube videos
or these discussions that are done by
people that use words that are real they
string them together correctly they have
like full sentences they appear to be
articulate it's very confusing if you're
a dummy if you let you listen to those
you go wow this guy's making a lot of
sense he's not but it sounds like he's
making a lot of sense because he's using
all these words that are correctly used
there's no arms he's saying it
articulately there's like everything
seems like like sentence this man is
exposing he's exposing the reality but
it's not it's just fucking nonsense yes
and if you don't know any better and
that's all you listen to that's where
your head will go the same with the
anti-vaccination of how it does that
which is not its uses as you say
scientific words but it's actually not
scientifically correct right you know it
does this which then does that which
then does that they lay out a kind of
causal chain you know just false and
then there's a problem of nuance and
perspective because there's so many
people that get vaccinated there's
hundreds of millions of people in this
country billions of people worldwide and
then there are instances rare or cases
where people have real issues those
vaccinations well there are some where
they have real issues so for example
there's some vaccines which are known to
cause certain neurological conditions
rarely one out of a million or 100,000
vaccinations more commonly is the
situation in which you have vaccination
is so common everyone is getting
vaccinated and often that occurs near to
an occurrence of some other rare
condition yes and people associate the
two they think oh because of the vaccine
this
but no it's a coincidence either/or yes
there's both in the and there's also you
know if it's one out of a million you
have 300 million exactly you have three
million you know I mean 1 million people
with an issue is a big deal yeah right
with 300 million people yes you you
easily could have 300 really big cases
yes you know 300 cases were assembling
you died from vaccines and then you
bring those in front of people and say
oh my god and then there's this one in
this one this one and there's 298 more
and you're like holy shit yes all these
people are dying from vaccines yes as
you know it doesn't feel good if it's
your child but when we look at the
greater perspective of humanity and you
say we'll listen you don't want to bring
back smallpox you don't want your child
to get measles ladies can get measles
when they can't even be vaccinated for
it this is one of the reasons why we
need to vaccinate children to make sure
they don't get measles yes a serious
fucking problem yes and a serious
problem that scientists have labored for
untold yeah aids to try a triumph of our
civilization that we can stop these
diseases yes and save children's lives I
had a woman yesterday who is an expert
is she's a medical historian an expert
in Victorian era surgery
Lindsay Fitzharris and she wrote this
great book called the butchering art and
in it there's all these images she shoot
one of them she brought up of what
smallpox actually looks like when people
get it it's horrible yes it just covers
people's bodies you've eradicated this
like sign full and you guys from it yes
it's actually gone yes we don't get it
incredible